(soft music)
- Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord,
and thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart
and with all thy soul and with all thy might.
And these words which I command thee this day
shall be in thine heart,
And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children,
and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house,
and when thou walkest by the way,
and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up.
And thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thine hand,
and they shall be as frontlets between thine eyes.
And thou shalt write them upon the posts of thy house,
and on thy gates.
(gentle music)
- Well, this is the time where we start up
and we get to dive into God's word,
which is always exciting.
It's also exciting coming out of a time
just to be able to connect in between service.
I think of so many times of how valuable it is
just to, once everybody gets here,
'cause we know this, I mean you got some of y'all
that are the early crew, some of you the mid crew,
some of you the late crew, and some of you the,
you're still not here yet, they're coming.
And I say that to say, reason why we take this
five minutes in between is 'cause typically
everybody's gotten here by now,
and it's an opportunity to just kinda catch up
and connect in between the kids transitioning out
and us jumping into the word of God.
So, hope you enjoyed that time as well.
And so today we're gonna be in Acts chapter two,
and we're gonna be in verse 37.
This should be familiar to those
who have been around Inspiring Hope
'cause we talked about this text back in the fall,
but we are currently in the middle of a series
called Practical Evangelism, Practical Evangelism,
and the reason why was,
as we began to talk about our church
and kind of where we were at as a church,
one of the things as a church plant,
or a new church, or a new church in a new space,
is the importance of inviting people to church,
the importance of inviting people
into a relationship with Jesus.
And so when I began to think about that,
I remembered whenever I gave my life to Christ
and whenever I was a part of a church,
I was very, very intimidated by sharing my faith.
And so I asked that question last week.
I said, "Hey, how many people in this room
"struggle to share your faith?"
And I would say the majority of you
that are willing to participate when I asked that question,
raised your hand, because the majority of us
do struggle with sharing our faith.
And then I asked the question, "Why?
Why do you struggle with sharing your faith?
And some of those were, you don't know what to say,
or you're afraid of people's responses when you do share.
You're afraid of the questions that they're gonna ask
that you will not be able to answer them.
And then sometimes, and I get this,
if you're used to thinking, again, with the church,
that's the pastor's job, or that's the church's job
to reach people and evangelize people.
My job's just to come and be a part of church.
So there's multiple reasons why we don't share our faith,
But I totally get it, and that's one of the things
and the reasons why we're in this series
is practical evangelism is something
that is near and dear to my heart
because I used to, whenever I was new in my faith,
complicate what it meant to share my faith,
and which meant I shared it less and I shared it awkwardly.
And because of that, I thought it would be important
for us as a church, if I'm not the only one
that has that struggle, then it would be important
for us to walk through this together
and see how we can practically evangelize.
And so last week we started with a couple of questions
that we answered, number one, why do we share our faith?
Why do we share our faith?
And so I listed four reasons why we share our faith,
and here's the reason why.
You won't do something unless you believe in
why you should do something.
Does that make sense?
I mean, if you don't know why you're doing something,
you're typically not gonna do it.
So why do we share our faith?
So number one, is this what God calls us
as followers of Jesus?
So if you've given your life to Jesus,
it's what God has called us to do.
And I would say this, we quoted a scripture last week,
how will they hear unless someone tells them?
So as a follower of Christ, somebody's gotta tell them.
Number two, it would be the natural outflow.
So why do we share our faith?
It's because it's the natural outflow
of our relationship with Jesus.
And I would say this, is that the more time
that you spend with Jesus, that Jesus will stick out.
He will come out of your life.
And so it would be a natural outflow.
Number three, the reason why we share our faith,
is 'cause we understand the consequences
of someone not coming to faith in Christ,
that they'll be separated from God for eternity, right?
So I would call that conviction, right?
So that's one of the reasons why.
And the last one is desire.
So we desire to see people
to experience the same saving faith relationship
that we have experienced with others.
And I call that inspiration.
And the reason why I call that inspiration
is you have experienced God's love, mercy,
and grace, and peace, and hope, forgiveness, you name it.
You've experienced it all,
and you desire for others to experience it.
So why do we share our faith?
Why do we evangelize?
Those are some of the reasons that we shared last week.
But then I also shared, I said,
hey, what is practical evangelism?
What does that mean?
So when we think about the word practical,
practical is a plan or method that is likely to succeed
or be effective in real life.
And you guys know this.
You ever been in a classroom setting
where somebody shares something
that doesn't even relate to your life at all?
I've been there, and it's the same way I've been there also
when it comes to evangelism.
It just doesn't correlate.
It doesn't make sense to me.
So the goal with practical evangelism is to be able to
share how we can practically, real world life,
share our faith with others.
And so last week we got to look at how Jesus shared
his faith, or how he shared the gospel,
how he shared who he was.
And one of the things we learned about Jesus,
and I thought this was so cool,
So Jesus took time to spend time with his Father,
relationship with God, before he went out
and consistently served in ministry,
and did ministry, and to share the gospel.
When we think about us,
that's what we talked about last week,
is we need to consistently spend time with Jesus
so that when we go out to share our faith
that we have something to give,
we have encouragement from Jesus.
And so my goal of last week was to say this,
the key to simple faith sharing, right,
or practical evangelism is a daily relationship with Jesus.
And that may sound logical to you,
but maybe it doesn't make sense,
and I wanted to be able to give this example.
Anybody ever fasted for a day?
Anybody?
Okay, a couple people.
Some of you are like, never gonna do that,
'cause I don't have to.
So if you fast for a day, typically,
you may lose a little bit of energy,
and it's a little bit difficult to do,
but you're like, hey, that's okay.
But anybody ever fasted for a week?
Right, most of us don't typically do that.
Well, after about a week of fasting,
your energy level and your ability to do your daily tasks
become more complicated and less desirable.
Does that make sense?
So, let me just kind of extend this
to your relationship with Jesus.
If you don't spend time with Jesus daily
in a relationship with him, getting to know him,
and him getting to know you,
then the more and more times
that you don't spend time with Jesus,
the less likely you are to share your faith with others.
There's less desire, there's less motivation,
there's less energy.
You don't even recognize it or even know
that you need to share your faith
because you spend less time with him.
So whenever I made that statement last week,
so important that following Jesus is the first step
to ever get to the point of practically evangelizing,
which means the more time we spend with Jesus,
the more likely we are to share our faith.
So then we dove in and we saw how Jesus did it,
and I'm just gonna break this down real quick.
Jesus, with the woman at the well,
there was a couple things that stuck out so well
and I think it related to so many of us
and I got some positive feedback from this.
Number one, when Jesus shared with this woman at the well,
he was tired and we can all relate,
when it comes to evangelism,
there's always an excuse to not share.
And Jesus had the greatest one, being tired,
because when we're tired, we don't wanna do anything
but sleep or take care of ourselves.
And Jesus didn't let that stop him from sharing.
Then he did something out of the norm,
which means this, he crossed cultural boundaries.
He went and talked to a Samaritan woman as a Jew,
and then it caused the woman to ask the questions
because of him crossing those cultural boundaries.
Then Jesus began to point to something greater
until she realized that it was something that she needed.
And here's what I loved, 'cause we transitioned quickly
and we saw the woman's response to who Jesus was,
and it was simple.
After she realized who Jesus was,
she took what she had heard,
and she shared it with those she knew.
She shared it with those she knew,
and many of those people came to faith in Christ.
So when we think about last week,
we were really focusing in on our relationship with Jesus
will drive us to share our faith with others.
But then also we saw those two examples,
and we even saw the simple example of the woman at the well
simply sharing her faith, what she knew.
She didn't worry about if she knew everything,
and she was able to lead people to faith in Christ.
So today, we're going to talk about the importance
of living in community and how that affects our ability
to practically evangelize.
And you'll see me kind of take these two things
and trade them out, either practically evangelize
or simply share our faith,
because that's basically what we're talking about here.
So how community, living in community,
affects our ability to share our faith.
And I wanna kind of set up today's text,
but before I do that, I wanna share with you guys
the reason why, to me, this is such an important message.
because it's something that I have experienced.
So before I moved here to Ohio,
I was part of a church where we started
multiple small groups,
where we lived in community with each other.
And one of them sticks out the most to me.
We left a small group to start this other small group.
And this other small group that we were a part of,
we helped build it up to about 30 people
meeting in a classroom, 30 people.
And this was a packed classroom.
We loved each other.
We saw God do some cool things in that group.
but we knew there was somebody waiting on us
to go start another group.
And so we asked the group, we got in this group
and we said, "Hey, who will go with us to start this group?"
And nobody raised their hand,
because everybody loved the group that they were in.
And we're like, "Okay, what are we gonna do?"
So I started just processing through
who I saw some leadership tendencies in,
and there was one couple that attended occasionally
to this group.
So we met with him and we said,
"Hey, you think you're crazy enough
"to maybe go start a group with us?
"Like, you've got some previous experience
from another church teaching a class,
like we'll teach it, you come be a part of it.
They're like, sure, why not?
So four people go into a classroom to start a group.
And the first week we had six people in that group.
And we kept inviting people and inviting people
and reaching out to people and inviting people.
And over time we grew that group to about 20 people.
But here was the cool part.
As we begin to live in community with these people,
we led four of those people to faith in Christ.
I got to baptize all four of them.
And I started thinking back through this.
I see how living in community affected our ability
to practically evangelize.
'Cause the community that I was in,
that was packed and full,
had all given their lives to Christ.
And if we would've stayed there,
it still would've been good,
there would've been some good things happening.
But our ability to go out and create community,
a new one that stretched us,
actually led us to lead people to faith in Christ.
And we were able to start two more groups after that
and see God do some amazing things.
I believe that community,
living in community together, affects that.
And the reason why we're gonna dive into Acts chapter two,
even though we've talked about it recently,
is because you're gonna see something beautiful,
how living in community challenges us to share our faith,
prepares us to share our faith,
and gives us opportunity to share our faith.
So to kind of set this text up, Acts chapter two,
the books before this, if you're not familiar with this,
the New Testament starts with Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.
They are the four gospels.
The reason why they're the four gospels
is they talk about the life of Jesus,
is birth, life, death, and resurrection.
And so all of this has just got done happening, right?
Jesus dies on the cross, he's put in the tomb,
three days later he's alive.
Hey, Easter's coming up in a month.
Make sure you plan to be here and invite somebody,
just so you know, since we're kind of already
on that subject.
But when Jesus is resurrected from his death
and to begin to live, he lives on earth for 40 days
and he begins to share some things
and some lasting encouragement.
And one of the last encouragements
he gives to his disciples is this in Matthew 28, 19 and 20.
He says, "Go therefore and make disciples of all nations,
"baptizing them in the name of the Father,
"the Son, and the Holy Spirit,
"and teaching them to observe everything I commanded you.
"And remember, I'm with you always to the end of the age."
So this is his, you know, you call it the Great Commission
that he gives to these disciples.
But then Acts 1 starts.
And see, the writer of Luke, the gospel,
is also the writer of Acts.
And the story kind of continues as well.
And so in the first part of Acts, in Acts chapter one,
Jesus tells his disciples to wait in Jerusalem
for the Father's promise, which is the Holy Spirit.
And then he says, as they waited,
God came to them and brought the Holy Spirit.
And the Holy Spirit came on them,
and they began to proclaim the message
of the gospel boldly, right?
And I want you to see this, the Spirit of God
and the ability to proclaim the gospel boldly is connected.
And there's a reason why we're talking about this
before we dive into the text.
The reason that they could boldly share the gospel
was because the Holy Spirit had came into their lives
and that is what gave them the ability and power
to share the gospel.
We can't miss this.
So we see that God used broken men who had issues,
who had failed Jesus before,
and God still gave them the power of the Holy Spirit
to proclaim the message.
And what we're gonna see in this text as we read
is 3,000 people gave their lives to Christ,
and we're gonna focus in on what I call the revival
that happened next.
So let's jump into this text.
In Acts chapter two, starting in verse 37,
this is what it says.
It says, "When they heard this," speaking of the gospel
that was shared by the disciples,
"they were pierced to the heart and said to Peter
"and the rest of the apostles,
"brothers, what should we do?
"And Peter replied, repent and be baptized,
"each of you in the name of Jesus Christ
"for the forgiveness of your sins,
"and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit,
"for the promise is for you and for your children
"and all who are far off,
"as many as the Lord our God will call."
And with many other words, he testified strongly
and urged them, saying,
"Be safe from this corrupt generation."
So those who accepted the message were baptized that day.
About 3,000 people were added to them.
So this is at the end of that story.
Now we're gonna see what their response was.
So then it says, "They devoted themselves,"
this group of 3,000,
"They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching,
"to the fellowship, to the breaking of the bread,
"and to prayer.
"And everyone was filled with awe,
"and many wonders and signs were being performed
"through the apostles.
"And now all the believers were together
"and held all things in common.
"And they sold their possessions and property
"and distributed the proceeds to all who had need.
"And every day they devoted themselves
"to meeting together in the temple.
"They broke bread from house to house,
"they ate food with joy, and they with sincere hearts,
"praising God and enjoying the favor of all people.
"Every day the Lord added to their number
"those who were being saved."
So let's pray, Lord Jesus,
we know that your word is powerful,
and we know that you are the one that works
in the hearts of all your people,
and I pray that you move in the lives
of each person in this room, including myself,
to continue to know you more.
and we just pray this in your heavenly name, amen.
So there's two things I want us to see in this text
that we can learn.
The first one is living in community encourages
and prepares us to practically share our faith.
And number two, living in community gives us opportunities
to practically share our faith.
So let's start with the first one, right?
These 3,000 people right after being saved,
after they begin to follow Jesus,
they prioritized living in community.
See, I look at the Word of God,
and this is so you guys understand this.
Sometimes we look at the word of God and we're reading it
and we begin to not understand everything about it,
but I look at the word of God and I say,
"What did they have that I don't have?
"What did they have that they're doing
"that they saw God move that I could start being a part of
"to see God move in my life?"
And so I see this and I see immediately
after they begin following Jesus,
they prioritize living in community.
I think that's really cool
and I think that's something we should not miss in this.
This is just a great example to see they prioritize this.
And the writer Luke even used some strong language here.
He says they devoted themselves.
What's the word devoted mean?
A strong dedication or affection for.
Right, a strong dedication or affection for.
And so one of the things that encourages me with this,
and this is why I think it's important we see this,
Paul didn't say, okay, after you give your lives to Jesus,
you must do X, Y, and Z.
Because that's legalism.
Legalism says you do these three things and you're spiritual.
What Peter did was he shared the gospel,
they responded, and the natural outflow of their life
was to devote themselves to these things.
And I want you to hear this because I think at times,
and I wanna kinda step here for just a minute,
do you ever feel like when you come to church,
it's because you have to?
Anybody?
Nobody's gonna admit it?
'Cause maybe you're here right now.
Hey, there we go, that's okay, that's good, thank you.
I appreciate that.
You've come to church because you have to.
You serve in a ministry right now because you have to.
You give because, well, that's what I have to do.
I mean, if you start viewing your relationship with Jesus
as a have to so that I can please God,
or a have to so I can please others that are around me,
we've missed the point of what God has called us to do.
And so I want you to see this,
and I think we cannot miss this,
The natural outflow of following Jesus is these things
as we dive into them, right, as we dive into them.
And so we look at this and we see the first one.
He says, "They devoted themselves
"to the apostles' teaching."
Right, they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching.
So what does that mean?
And I kind of view this as a couple different things.
Number one, they devoted themselves to coming together
to a place where the word of God was preached and taught.
So you guys are here today,
and I would kind of correlate that same similar feel
of what they were doing.
So check mark, you guys are at service on Sunday morning,
dedicated, at least somewhat, to the church, right?
You're here today, you're here coming to part of that.
But let's see the other parts.
He says they were dedicated to fellowship.
And I've looked at the word fellowship,
and the fellowship means this,
the friendly association with people
who share the same interests with the purpose
of building relationships and challenging one another.
So they dedicated themselves to fellowship.
So who all here believes that you're getting
good fellowship on Sunday mornings?
Good fellowship, solid fellowship?
Okay, a couple of y'all.
I'm gonna tell you it's a lie.
We don't spend enough time together
to get to true fellowship.
And I'm just, you guys love probably
having me share these things.
Sunday morning is not good fellowship, it's fellowship.
and it's good, but it's not the best fellowship
that he's talking about here.
The fellowship they were talking about,
they spent time together.
I mean, time.
Time not doing tasks, where we're all serving
and running and going or whatever,
just sitting under preaching or sitting under,
you know, whatever.
Fellowship, time.
So yes, they had the time devoted to Sunday mornings,
but the fellowship is more than that.
So much more than that.
But then he says they spent time
devoting time together to break bread,
And so I'm like, what's the difference
between breaking bread and fellowship?
And I would say this, it's eating together without purpose.
You guys ever go to eat with somebody
and you know that they have an agenda?
Maybe you've had a lunch with me and you felt that way.
Okay, and it's a challenge to me as I begin to study this
because I think at times I go to lunch
and I go to breakfast and I go to coffee
and I hang out with people and I invite people over
for dinner with an agenda in mind.
When I look here and I say, man,
I should just spend more time hanging out with these people.
Just chilling on the couch, right?
Just asking how life's going.
What you're struggling with, what's good, right?
So they spend time breaking bread
and enjoying one another's company.
I call this doing life together, right?
Maybe you're gonna go to Topgolf and hit some golf balls
and just not have an agenda behind it.
Then the last one is to prayer.
And when we look at this in the last section of this,
you would think, okay, well,
they were committed to individual prayer.
I actually believe as we begin to study a little bit
about this that when he correlates this to everything,
when they were devoted to the apostles' teaching,
they were together.
When they were devoted to fellowship, they were together.
When they were devoted to breaking of bread,
they were together.
I believe when they were devoted to prayer,
So he says that they devoted themselves to praying together
for one another's needs and requests before God.
So can somebody summarize this for me?
What did they devote themselves to?
It's one word.
Anybody?
Community, yes, Amanda got it, community.
They devoted themselves to community.
And we're gonna see what the outflow of community is,
but guys, I'm telling you, when I read the word of God
and I see something so clear,
where they devoted themselves to these things,
and we're gonna see the benefit
of devoting themselves to each other, to community.
There's a benefit to it.
So let's jump into the benefit.
What was the result of spending time with benefit?
Benefiting them, right?
So verse 43, and I literally saw this this week
and it stuck out to me.
I used to look at verse 43 this way.
Everyone was filled with all,
and again I'm gonna translate it
the way I used to read it in my head.
Everyone was filled with all
because of the many wonders and signs
that were performed by the apostles.
That's the way I used to read it.
This time around, I'm gonna tell you how I read it
because this is actually how it is read in the Bible,
at least in my version here.
Everyone was filled with awe, comma,
and many wonders and signs were performed
through the apostles.
I want you to see this.
Don't miss this.
The community of believers that gathered together
were filled in awe because of the commitment to community.
And there was apostles doing some crazy cool things
that was great to see.
They were in awe because of the community
that they were a part of.
Oh man, like that stuck out to me this week.
What does it mean to be in awe?
I think it means to be inspired, to be encouraged, right?
To doing life with one another.
I just think that's so cool.
So they were in awe of this time
that they spent together in community.
And as we look at this,
and that encouragement of community,
Who here struggles to be a part of anything
outside of the crazy life of work,
and your kids' activities,
and all the responsibilities you have?
I mean, even kids, you guys have a lot of responsibilities
at school and things like that.
Anybody struggle with being a part of anything
outside of what my kids are a part of,
what my work schedule is,
and any things I gotta get done around the house?
All of us struggle with time.
So when we talk about community,
I would say this, if I was to poll this group,
most of you would say, I want a community like this.
And we're gonna talk more about what the community brought.
I want a community like this, but can I be truthful?
Because I've been there.
Truth is, it's easier to make excuses than to make plans
to attend a part of a community, to be a part of a community.
It's easier to make excuses.
Now, the reason why I say this, and so you know,
I've been there before, I've been there before,
because the thing is, you're gonna have to sacrifice
something for the sake of something better.
Sacrifice something for the sake of something better.
So I always go back to these examples in my life
because I've been there before.
When we moved from Oklahoma, we had something great,
a great community of people,
and we left that something to sacrifice
to experience something greater.
And so here's the cool part.
If you're in this room, and people who are online
who are sick and who may listen to this message later,
you all are better.
Don't tell the people back in Oklahoma that.
But you're better, why?
Because the sacrifice was worth the reward.
So I say that to say this, that when we begin to talk
more and more about the value of community,
it may take you sacrificing something in your life
to be a part of community outside of a Sunday morning,
a community of people, but the benefit outweighs
the sacrifice that you'll give up.
Trust me, I've experienced it.
Well, what do you mean you've experienced it?
I believe that when we started this church,
we experienced this community.
We all were in the same home, and there was no other church
with the home and we met every week
and we built this community that we loved
and we built this community that we're strong together.
And I experienced that community
and I believe that I'm experiencing it again
in the new Inspire group that we've started.
And there's more to it.
So let's talk more, I'm gonna come back to that.
But verse 44 tells us this, it says this in verse 44,
it says, "Now all the people and believers were together
"and held all things in common."
So what was the result of spending time in community?
The awe that they experienced, but also the peace
and unity.
I'll just be honest with you guys.
In the world that we live in today,
finding peace and unity with the people is difficult.
It seems like there's always division
either in your family, some friends, something.
But this group found peace and unity under Christ.
And I think that's something that we should desire.
And so you know, these people were not all
from the same backgrounds.
If you'll go back to Pentecost,
which is when this revival began to happen
"and they preached to these 3,000 people.
"These were people of all cultural backgrounds."
So do you think that they held everything in common
as though they had all the same likes
and beliefs and backgrounds?
Absolutely not.
We're talking about a different group of people,
but they found unity and peace under Christ.
So that is beautiful when we think
about what community brings.
Community also brought generosity.
So we see here in verse 45,
"They sold their possessions and property
and distributed to proceeds all that had need, right?
So they begin to be transformed by the gospel
in such a way that they begin to be generous
to those who had a need.
I think that's so cool.
This community brought just generosity
and meeting each other's needs.
And so it was awe and inspiring, right?
It was one that brought peace and unity.
It was one that brought generosity.
And if it can't get any better, right,
if it can't get any better, they continued in verse 46.
So you know, I'm walking through this quickly
because of the idea behind what we're trying
to bring out from the text.
But he says this, "Every day they devoted themselves
"to meeting together in the temple,
"broke bread from house to house,
"and they ate their food with joyful and sincere hearts."
I asked myself this question, 'cause I see the first one,
they devoted themselves to these things,
and then every day together they did these things.
And I'm like, sometimes you can just take those two things
and say, hey, they devoted themselves.
I look at this as this.
They begin to devote themselves to these things,
They sacrificed to do this, just so you know.
They had activities they were doing
before they gave their lives to Christ
that they had to give up to go be a part of this community.
Once they experienced the community,
they continued because they saw the benefit.
Do you see what I'm saying here?
Because if it was not beneficial, what would they have done?
They would have went back to what they were doing before.
Sometimes you don't know if the grass is greener
on the other side until you step over the other side
and experience that it is.
Now that may be a horrible example
'cause a lot of times we tell you
not to look at the other side
because grass is not always greener on the other side,
but this is what this community tells you, it is.
It's worth the sacrifice to be a part of community.
And he says the result of this community
was to be joyful or to be happy and sincere in heart,
which is to be compassionate,
so much so that they praise God
for the life change they experience
and the community that God gave them.
I love this and I think it's so important.
they didn't complain to God about the community
that God brought to them,
because that community brought so much benefit to them.
But here's the other part of it, right?
So living in community encourages us,
but it also prepares us for the ministry assignment
to share our faith, right?
This is what we're talking about,
is to practically share our faith.
Look at what it says here at the beginning of 47.
It says that they were praising God
and enjoying the favor of all people.
enjoying God, worshiping God, praising God,
There's something about a godly community of people
who are inspired by God,
that God uses to open the door to share our faith.
When you have a godly community of people
that are meeting together and experiencing these things,
can somebody tell me who's watching?
Who's watching?
God, okay, who else is watching?
Kids, what?
The world.
And when the world sees a community of people, because I'm just telling you guys, you know
it right now, there's not a lot of unity in a lot of places.
When they see a group of people, a community of people unified in peace that are excited
to be together, that are changing the world through generosity, they want to be a part
of it.
I mean, that's the truth.
Now what you may be asking is, "Man, I'm waiting for that community.
Once they create it, I'll go be a part of it."
And if you be a part of it and you're not willing to help create it, you'll probably
run it.
I'll say that again.
If you want to be a part of a community like that and you're not willing to help create
that community, then if you ever join that part of the community, you'll probably run
it.
I'm sorry.
I'm just sharing with you.
The truth of this is that it takes each one of us
to create that community.
It takes each one of us to sacrifice
to be a part of that community.
So that as we're a part of that community,
because we love that community,
that God gives us favor with people
outside of the community that need to hear the gospel,
that desire to experience this beautiful community
that God creates.
So living in community obviously encourages us
and prepares us, but I believe living in community
gives us the opportunity to practically evangelize.
We saw that briefly in verse 47
on the beginning of it, right?
But as we look into this verse,
as they devoted themselves to living in community,
what happens?
It says this at the end.
It says, "Every day the Lord added to their number
"those who were being saved."
Those who were being saved.
I would say this, is that to practically share our faith
is as simple as living in community
and being a part of something this beautiful.
Because you won't have to go knock down the doors
of people to share the gospel with them
to get them to give their lives to Jesus.
They'll knock down your doors and they'll ask you why
you believe what you believe and why God has created
so much unity in your community,
why God is doing what he's doing in your life.
And I would say this, as we begin to serve our community
over these last two or three years,
and as we continue to serve through the schools
and through all these ministries that we're a part of,
people are starting to ask these questions, why?
And this is the great part.
Every time I get to answer, Jesus, why?
Jesus.
And here's the thing, maybe they're not completely just,
oh man, they're giving lives to Christ left and right,
but here's what I'm starting to see.
We're finding favor with people.
But I'll just tell you this,
that community that God has created doesn't always last
unless we all help create it.
You can't let one group of people,
or one group of people be the only community
that is creating this.
We need to all be a part of this community.
And so my challenge to you is,
when we think about a community like this,
is are you a part of a community that is,
and I'm talking about a community outside of Sunday mornings
and let me just challenge you,
I think those are inspire groups that we have
and inspire groups that we wanna start,
which means people that are doing life together.
Are you a part of a community that you're seeing
these things so that you can have favor with people
so that more people will come to faith in Christ?
And if you're saying, hey, this isn't present in my life,
my challenge for you is maybe God's telling you today
that you need to join a community of people
and devote yourself to him.
To join a community of people and devote yourself to him.
Maybe he's not.
That's between you and the Lord,
but that's just the conviction that I have.
So what happens as a result of a community
finding favor with all people.
The Lord adds numbers to those being saved.
I would just say this, and I've heard this from many of you,
do you want other people to experience hope in Jesus?
The majority of you, if you've given your life to Christ,
are saying yes.
If you haven't, you're probably saying I don't know.
But if you have given your life to Jesus,
and you hear that question, do you want people
to come to faith in Christ?
Do you want people to experience what you've experienced?
If you do, follow Jesus through a daily relationship
with him and live in community.
'Cause out of the overflow of those two things will result.
God will use the spirit of God inside of you
and in spite of that group of people to change the world
and to lead people to faith in Christ.
We've been given this example and when I look at the word,
I look at the word as a timeless word.
If it worked then, why can't it work now?
and you wanna know what the same thing is similar then
as it is to now?
The Holy Spirit.
It's God.
It's God, because you may say,
well, that's the beginning of the church era.
That's whenever the Spirit of God began to spread
like it's never spread before
and it just doesn't do that anymore.
And I'd be like, yeah, it does.
It can, if we wanna be a part of it.
So how do we practically share faith?
I've already shared that with you, right?
Week one, we talked about that.
Follow Jesus week two this week.
is to be in community, what's our response?
I'm just gonna be quick to this
because I think you guys have heard enough.
As we go into a time of invitation,
we take time to consider where we are.
Consider where we are.
And I'm just gonna tell you,
you may, this may be your first Sunday,
this may be your 197th Sunday, I don't know.
And you've been hearing this statement,
give your life to Jesus.
Jesus can transform your life,
be a part of a community of people
that can transform your life.
And you may just continue to have been that person
to just say, nah, I don't need Jesus.
Nah, I don't wanna experience God in this way.
I'm just gonna challenge you today,
maybe today is the day that you give your life to Jesus.
But today is the day that you begin to experience
the hope of the gospel.
What we're talking about here to practically evangelize,
we want to do that,
but if you haven't given your life to Jesus,
that won't be something that's on your radar
even prioritize because you don't see the value
in giving your life to Jesus.
So I think that's where you start.
That's where you start.
How do you give your life to Jesus?
It's by admitting that you're a sinner,
admitting that you need to give your life to Jesus,
admitting that you need him to forgive you,
admitting that you can't be transformed
and be used by God without him.
And then after you give your life to Jesus,
those of us that have already given our lives to Jesus,
what's the response?
It's for us to look and say this,
Lord, use me.
I'm telling you, don't miss out on the opportunity
to be used by God.
I wake up every day as a pastor,
and just so you know, so many times I forget
that I'm a pastor, I wake up every day as a Christ follower,
and I say, Lord, use me.
Please.
I feel like I'm just like the apostles,
broken, confused at times.
I don't know enough.
I have all the excuses and God says I can still use you
because the power of God, the spirit of God
that's inside of us is more powerful
than what I bring to the table.
So don't miss out on the opportunity to change eternity
for someone else by sharing the gospel,
by inviting people into this community here.
So I challenged you earlier.
I said, hey, Sunday mornings are not a place of fellowship.
They are.
They're just not a long-term solution
of deep fellowship that God's called us to.
Those of you that are obviously from Inspiring Hope here,
we have inspire groups.
We only have two going on right now, but they're not full.
Your guys' isn't full, right?
Ours isn't full, and we'll start more.
Why?
Because I believe this, as we commit
to living in community outside of this Sunday morning,
that we're gonna continue to see people
come to faith in Christ.
We're gonna continue to be all inspired when we meet.
But if you wanna miss out on it, don't be a part of it.
I just hope you do.
I want you to be a part of it.
I think God wants to transform our church community
through prioritizing community.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus, I pray that, Lord,
that this message was clear.
Lord, that as we look into your word and we say,
Lord, how do we practically share our faith?
Sometimes I think we try to get all the words right,
but Lord, you just told us to just devote ourselves
to the right community.
And if we'll just do that,
that the result of that will provide an opportunity
to share our faith with others.
It'll be an overflow of that community
that shares who you are with them.
God, I pray if there's a person in this room
that doesn't know you,
that hasn't given their lives to you,
that hasn't repented of their sins
and experienced a true saving faith,
Lord, I pray that today they do that.
Lord, I pray that as I stand in the back of the room,
Lord, if there's a question that they have
about how to give their lives to Christ,
that they'll come and find me and ask.
Lord, I also just pray for those who are in this room,
Lord, that haven't experienced
that community throughout the week,
that one that you can do life with,
that you can challenge one another
and experience powerful prayer
and powerful timing the word together
and powerful challenging and equipping.
Lord, I pray that that person in this room
is challenged to go find an inspired group this week.
Lord, they'll come over to the next steps table
and they'll ask, when's the next one?
And they'll start attending,
they'll start being a part of it.
And they'll not only attend, but they'll participate.
Lord, I just pray that you convict our hearts as a church
not to miss this opportunity.
Lord, to not just prioritize Sunday mornings,
but to prioritize every day with each other,
to challenge each other, to live our faith out.
God, we love you, and we thank you,
and we pray this in your heavenly name, amen.
[Music]
[BLANK_AUDIO]